[birds chirping]
[Laura] Three. two. one.
[happy music playing]
[Laura and Mary giggling]
- [Mary] No. let me do it!
- [Laura] No. let me do it.
[both laughing]
I think that was faster. [chuckles]
Fast enough to win?
It depends who we're racing.
[Laura grunts]
How much do Ma and Pa
owe Miss Henderson again?
- Six dollars?
- Six dollars and thirty cents.
I'll win the slingshot competition
and the ring toss.
That's ten cents.
You'll win the embroidery competition
and the essay contest.
That one's worth a whole dollar.
It won't make up all the debt.
but it'll make up some of it.
Shh.
I don't want them to know that we know.
- I wanna win the money and surprise them.
- All right.
[Carrie fusses]
[horse whinnies]
- Admiring your corn again?
- [Charles] That's right.
Next year we'll plant twice as much
and buy a milk cow
and get to building a bigger house…
one with bedrooms.
[laughs]
Mortgage payments will come in
any day now.
The crops will be in.
I'll do more winter hunting and trapping.
We'll have plenty of furs to sell.
Dream big.
I'll dream big when that mortgage
starts coming on time every month.
[both laughing]
[Caroline chuckles]
- What do you think about a bigger house?
- Yes.
We want a sleeping loft.
- And a bookcase for our treasures.
- And a sitting room. And a stove.
Never hurts to know what you want.
Dream as big as the sky.
Make a plan to get it.
All I'm dreaming about
right now is Founders Day.
Our plan is to eat popcorn
and dance at the dance.
Solid plan.
I wanna dance.
[Caroline chuckles]
[Caroline laughs]
[music fades]
[old-timey piano music playing]
[indistinct chatter]
[both] Independence is a town
named after a way of life.
The families who came here
were hoping for freedom
and a fresh start in a new place.
- You see. I much prefer your cobbler.
- [chuckles]
I didn't know
that you could play the piano. Mr. Scott.
Years of lessons.
In the West. I'm all about the new songs.
Any requests?
[footsteps approaching]
There's a raffle and kettle corn
and lemonade. Come on!
[both laugh]
Silly me.
thinking it would be a family day.
- It's hard to compete with lemonade.
- [women chuckle]
Not wrong about that.
It's good to see you both.
[William] Mm.
I heard the Osage
are riding out next week.
Most of them. yes.
Will you go with them?
- We haven't decided yet.
- No.
We heard school's starting in September.
Thank goodness.
The girls have had enough of my lessons.
Oh.
- I thought you'd be teaching.
- I don't know. I… I have my hands full.
Ladies and gentlemen of Independence.
may I have your attention. please?
Let me be the first to wish you all…
[crowd clapping and cheering]
…a Happy Founders Day!
Hit it. Scott!
[piano playing jaunty music]
[children laughing]
Here you go.
The ring toss is at the same time
as the three-legged race.
- You're not gonna be able to do both.
- I could enter the ring toss.
If I win. I could give you my prize money.
- You told her?
- She won't say anything.
- We don't need help.
- We do need help.
If we end up staying. you could teach me
how to make flower crowns.
Then we'll be even.
That's fair.
Pa says to dream as big as the sky.
and then make a plan to get it.
[piano music continues in background]
So let's go get it.
[playing upbeat music]
And no one knows where he went?
Apparently. he asked Dr. Blake
in Elk City to take on his patients.
and then he rode
right off the face of the earth.
- Haven't heard anything since.
- [Lacey] Mm-hmm.
Maybe he went back to his wife.
- Why would you…
- Or maybe he went off to divorce her.
It's 50-50. At least now you know.
Know what? I don't know anything
except that he was untruthful.
I wouldn't give up on him. not yet.
- Since when are you an optimist?
- Uh…
- I am not an optimist.
- Mm-hmm.
I just know a girl in love when I see her.
Who said anything about love?
[Lacey inhales deeply]
Oh. we're almost out.
[gasps]
Do you want to go
shoot some holes in this barrel?
I always feel so much better
when I shoot holes in things.
No. No. thank you.
[Mr. Edwards clears throat]
How romantic.
Mind if I borrow her?
Go on. I'll finish up here.
[indistinct chatter]
[White Sun] Why'd you tell him
we hadn't decided yet?
Because we haven't.
You've said you didn't wanna walk away
from everything we've built here.
so what changed?
I felt like I made
a difference at the signing.
I'd like to keep doing that. Translating.
negotiating. looking out for our future.
Your father wouldn't like it. not after
everything you put into the house.
I don't care what my father likes.
It was one thing when the land was
in limbo. but the deal is done.
I'm afraid we won't be welcome.
We won't be safe.
- On our own land?
- That's not how they'll see it.
Louis said he'd buy
the house and the farm.
Maybe starting over
will be the best thing for all of us.
[melancholy music playing]
All of us.
So you just wanna leave Julia here.
She'll always be with us.
[music fades]
- [man 1] Happy Founders Day to y'all.
- [man 2] Happy Founders Day.
- You told me the money would come.
- It's from my father.
He put Carrie's name in the Bible.
[bell ringing in the distance]
What?
Mr. Gustafson had a stroke.
- Oh no.
- He's alive. He's still recovering.
His wife says they can start payments
once their son comes to help.
but that would be long after the harvest.
- No money for a year?
- At least.
The girls need new clothes.
new shoes. books for school.
We're already low
on cornmeal. flour. beans.
And we're in debt.
I hate kicking a sick man
out of his house.
but we could repossess.
look for a new buyer.
I'd have to go back to get things settled.
Even if we had money for the trip.
I… I can't be here alone. Charles.
[Carrie fusses]
I need to get that teaching job.
What about Carrie?
I'll find someone to watch her.
Or I'll bring her with me.
This town's growing like a weed.
They'll need good carpenters
before the snow comes.
Every time Eli James opens his mouth.
it's about that railroad.
There must be jobs there.
[hopeful music playing]
Something will turn up.
[Caroline sighs]
Dream big.
[indistinct chatter]
[all cheering]
[Sarah] On your mark. get set.
go!
[crowd cheering and encouraging]
- [Lacey speaking French]
- [Laura] Go. go. go!
- You got it!
- Come on!
We have our winner!
[Mr. Edwards hoots]
Bravo!
- All right. let's go.
- [girls laugh]
- Good job. girls.
- [Mary] Come on!
[Laura laughs]
You must've been a good father.
I tried.
They were lucky to have you.
[music fades]
- Okay. enough slush.
- [Mr. Edwards chuckles]
I have a slingshot competition to judge.
[indistinct chatter]
[Jemma] Both of you pull at the same time.
No. pull together.
You're pulling separately.
Okay. now hold on the left.
And on the right…
Okay. it's… it's… Oh!
[both chuckle]
It's a spectacular day.
I did have a vision. didn't I?
- Yes.
- [chuckles]
I hear Mary is Romanzy's big competition
for the essay contest.
I haven't heard a word of it.
but she's been practicing for weeks.
Oh! May the best speaker win.
[Jemma chuckles]
I've been thinking
about how much I miss teaching.
[Jemma] Higher on the right side.
Exactly. like that. Hold it. Hold it.
Perfect. [sighs]
I'm sorry. you were saying?
I… I'd like to take the teaching position
when the term starts.
Caroline. that position's been filled.
A young woman Margaret recommended.
She has two years' experience
and comes with very high marks.
Oh.
You know teaching's for unmarried women.
Those are not my rules.
They're just the rules.
You've got your baby and your family.
And I'm sure you'll agree
this town needs as many young. fresh faces
as we can tempt.
- Of course.
- [Jemma sighs]
Besides. I've got something else for you.
Once the railroad comes in.
I'll be entertaining
and hosting new arrivals.
[whispers] Eli is planning to run
for mayor.
That's a secret. Don't say a word.
I'll have my hands absolutely full.
which means I won't have
much time for the Women's Society.
I'd like you to take it on.
I'd still be the director. of course.
but you'd manage the day-to-day.
The women look up to you.
[unsettling music playing]
I'm flattered.
Unfortunately. I need paid work right now.
Oh. I didn't realize.
I'll let you get on with your day.
The Judson's planning to expand
their restaurant and bakery.
They'll be looking for an excellent cook.
I'd be happy to recommend you.
if that's of interest.
Yes. thank you.
And you'll let me know
about the Women's Society?
You'd want a working woman
to head your society?
We're all working women. aren't we?
[heartwarming music playing]
[music fades]
I was wondering.
now that the treaty is signed.
if the town might be getting
some railroad work.
If so.
I'd appreciate you putting in
a good word for me.
There certainly is work.
and I'd be happy to recommend you
as a potential foreman.
We could use a man like you.
Thank you.
Of course. a railroad
in Independence will take some time.
but there's plenty available
on the extension lines.
Could be Nebraska.
or. more likely. Colorado.
[indistinct chatter]
I don't know if I like the idea
of being that far away from my family.
It would only be for a year or so.
I'll imagine you've got
big plans for that land.
- Yes.
- Think about it.
Now I need to go see about my girls.
They have a knack for finding trouble.
They get that from Jemma. not me.
- [Eli chuckles]
- [kids laughing]
I am pleased to announce
that our first-prize winner
for excellent design.
color choice. and stitchwork is…
- Mary Ingalls.
- [clapping]
- Thank you.
- [Margaret] Well done.
[laughs happily]
Excellent work. Very good.
[groans in exasperation]
[Emily laughs]
- Congratulations.
- [chuckles]
Thank you. You won something too?
Gingersnaps. first prize.
Didn't have much competition.
[both laugh]
I haven't seen Caleb anywhere.
He was a little down this morning.
Wouldn't tell me why.
[upbeat music playing]
Maybe you can find him. cheer him up?
[Emily laughs]
[door opens. closes]
Thank you. ladies.
[music fades]
Hello.
Dr. Tann. welcome back.
- I was hoping we could. uh. talk.
- Well. I need to get going.
I don't require company. thank you.
- I'm just back from Philadelphia.
- Well. I hope you had a nice trip.
- Emily. I'd like to explain.
- There's no need. A no is a no.
I sent divorce papers home
just after our Christmas.
My wife wouldn't sign them.
I see.
When you asked about the future.
I knew I had to go
and get it settled immediately.
So I did.
Hm.
Enjoy your day.
[emotional music playing]
[Mr. Edwards] Want some?
Fought off Old Man Spencer
for the last of it.
It's fine.
He doesn't have any teeth anyway.
[music fades]
Cheer up.
It's Founders Day.
Two years of Independence.
Sam Parker just told me a crew
of young men came into town
to work construction last week.
charging half the rate.
Half the rate?
They even know one end
of a hammer from the other?
Does it matter?
The couple that bought our land
in Wisconsin just defaulted.
[sighs]
Thought I might try to pick up
construction work this fall. but…
I just can't seem to get ahead.
I have a spot of work chasing strays
on a cattle drive coming up.
Happy to split the job.
Probably give you a milk cow for free.
The calves.
they struggle to keep up with the herd.
Sure your girls
would love some fresh butter.
- Now. that's generous.
- Nah. purely selfish.
If you don't stick around.
you don't help me build my house.
- A house?
- Hm. Things are settled with the land.
Figured
maybe I should get settled too.
Look. don't worry about those young men
and their cheap work.
First gust or gale that hits.
people want good work from professionals.
What do you say we go
into this rail-splitting competition.
show these young men who's boss?
Hi. Laura. Who's your friend?
This is Good Eagle.
Good Eagle. this is Edith and Romanzy.
- How come you never came to play with us?
- You were mean about Caleb. That's why.
Have you finally learned to read?
Or will you have to sit with the babies
when school starts? [laughs]
I can read.
Next competitor. step forward.
[coughs]
[Romanzy and Edith laugh]
So I guess you were lying about being able
to hit a rabbit from 20 paces.
[both laugh]
[sad music playing]
[bell jingles]
I won the embroidery contest.
You should've seen Romanzy's face.
Congratulations.
[music fades]
Are you all right?
You got a letter.
From my mother.
Your mother?
After Christmas. Emily put notices
in newspapers all over the country.
My mother saw one. and she wrote to me.
She said that she didn't know
what had happened to me.
She's living in Cincinnati now.
and she wants me to come home.
[melancholy music playing]
Oh.
I wanna see her more than anything.
But what if Emily gets upset
at me for leaving?
Emily won't be upset.
She'll miss you.
But she won't be upset.
What about you?
Family is everything.
I want you to have that.
But I'll miss you too.
[music fades]
Independence. the word.
stands for freedom and self-sufficiency.
And Independence. the town.
stands for those same values.
I don't want to go to school next year.
Forget about those girls.
We'll sit together.
and no one will bother us
'cause we're smarter than all of them.
You don't even know if you're staying yet.
[Romanzy continues in background]
I might be all alone next year.
You have your sister.
You'll never be alone.
[Romanzy continues in background]
You're right.
[Romanzy] …for other
like-minded individuals.
His hard work paid off.
Our town is more than Independence.
It is home.
- [all applauding]
- [Jemma exclaims]
First.
Well done. Romanzy James.
Last but not least. Mary Ingalls.
[indistinct chatter]
Miss Ingalls?
- You should go up there.
- [Reverend] Miss Ingalls?
- No. Mary's the smart one.
- Last call for Miss Ingalls.
You're just as smart.
Then the competition is concluded.
Wait!
I'm Miss Ingalls.
[crowd murmuring]
[hooves clopping]
[horse whinnies]
Independence…
is a town named after a way of life.
[tender music playing]
Independence is actually
a funny name for a town like this.
The prairie is so big. and we're so small.
The truth is
none of us can make it alone here.
We need help from each other
when we need a place to live
and when we get sick
and when we get lonely.
Independence isn't about self-reliance
or liberty or freedom
or any of those things.
It's a place to come together.
a place to find out who you really are.
Independence means getting to know
people who have been here a long time
or people who have just arrived.
people who are different
from anyone you've known before
or people who feel like family.
[footsteps approaching]
Independence isn't really a place.
It's an idea.
It's the people
you carry around in your heart.
[applauding]
- [woman] Good job. Laura!
- [crowd cheering]
[man 1] Good job. Laura!
- Whoo!
- Yeah!
Bravo!
- [man 2] Amazing speech!
- [whistling]
Laura!
Bravo!
Good for you. Laura.
[indistinct]
Her speech was just great.
[Reverend clears throat]
And the winner is…
Romanzy James.
[Jemma exclaims. laughs]
- Well done!
- [Eli] Bravo!
Bravo!
Thank you.
[man] Here's to more.
It doesn't matter.
That was the best speech I've ever heard
and the truest.
What do you say we go have some music?
- [fiddle playing]
- [Laura giggles]
[audience claps rhythmically]
[man vocalizing]
[man] All right.
[Mr. Edwards laughs]
[music ends]
- [people whoop]
- [man] Yeah!
[Laura giggles]
This way.
[slow music playing]
What's rattling around up there?
You ever thought about
settling down again?
I've tried my hand at a settled life.
It doesn't agree with me.
See. I think I've realized that I am…
I'm at my best when I'm part of a family.
I wish I could give that to you.
[melancholy music playing]
[laughing]
Can we talk?
Just because we danced doesn't mean
I have anything to say to you.
- You have every right to be upset.
- I'm glad we agree on that.
You made me feel like a fool.
- I'm sorry.
- Why didn't you just tell me?
I don't know. I…
You caught me by surprise. I suppose. I…
I didn't expect to fall in love again.
[heartwarming music playing]
I thought about you
every moment I was away.
And I very much want you
to be part of my future…
if you'll still have me.
[Emily scoffs]
Now maybe we just…
have another dance for now.
[music fades]
[slow music continues]
I remember the first time I saw you dance.
I remember you barging in
with a wagon full of books
in the middle of our cotillion lesson.
You offered to show me the library.
I wanted your Jane Austen.
- Come on. I was charming.
- You certainly thought so.
We had no idea what was ahead of us.
Love.
War.
Loss.
- Promise.
- We thought everything was possible.
- We wanted to find a new way to live.
- It's not what I thought it would be.
I'm not sure it ever is.
I wanna try again.
To start again.
I wanna feel that promise.
that possibility.
You were right.
She'll always be with us.
no matter where we go.
I'll. uh…
I'll talk to Louis about the farm.
Mm.
[crowd applauding]
[music fades]
[light piano music playing]
- [Carrie coos]
- Hello. sweet. happy.
Yeah.
May I have this dance?
[footsteps approaching]
We can watch Carrie.
[Carrie gurgles]
[both chuckle]
I know the day didn't go
exactly the way we hoped.
It never does. does it?
I know we can make it work.
We always do.
[music continues]
[tender music playing]
[Russell] What have you done?
What have you done? You've ruined lives.
What are you gonna do?
You're not gonna walk away from me.
- Hey!
- [Eli] I won't.
I'll be right back.
[Russell] Don't walk away from me. James.
Hey! Don't you walk away from me. James.
I said not here. Kind.
Pay for it? I paid with my sweat.
- [Charles] Leave him be. Russell!
- [thunder crashes]
[Russell] Hey.
He's a snake.
He lured us all here to watch us
get thrown out of our homes.
Go on! Tell him. James.
Now that the deal
with the Osage has gone through.
the government wants
to kick us all off our claims
unless we pay up in the next two weeks.
- What do you mean?
- The Homestead Act isn't any good here.
Now that they bought
the land from the Osage.
the government wants
a return on their investment.
Eli and his railroad sold us a lie.
and now we're left with the bill!
I did no such thing.
[thunder rumbles]
How much do they want?
[tense music playing]
Dollar fifty an acre.
Fair market value.
And if I don't have it?
The marshals will see to it that you
and me and any other fool who can't pay
will be cleared out behind the Indians.
Progress isn't without
its bumps and bruises.
To hell with you and your progress.
[thunder rumbling]
I could arrange a loan from the railroad.
A foreman's salary would be
more than adequate to pay it back.
even double your land.
It would just be for a year…
maybe two.
What do you say?
[sighs]
[thunder rumbling]
How much did you hear?
Enough.
What will the harvest bring in?
I… I don't know.
Enough to buy ten acres?
We could sell off some of the furniture.
the pocket watch. the combs. the fiddle.
If our jobs come through.
it might get us through the winter.
Or I could take the foreman position.
We didn't come all this way to be apart.
[thunder booms]
[wind whooshing]
What is that?
Prairie fire.
[Russell] Let it burn.
Let Eli's town burn to the ground.
It's what he deserves.
Fire! Fire!
[tense music continues]
[bell clanging]
[fire crackling]
[Emily] Eli. go.
Here.
Take it. Be careful.
[Charles] We need to dig a firebreak!
[indistinct yelling]
[wind whistling]
Fast and straight!
Keep going! Keep going!
[music builds. fades]
- [melancholy music playing]
- They'll put it out.
- What if they can't?
- Then we can run to the creek.
That's where all the birds
and rabbits and snakes would go.
Then that's where we'll run.
[Carrie fusses]
[children speak indistinctly]
♪ Let us pause in life's pleasures ♪
♪ And count its many tears ♪
♪ While we all sup sorrow with the poor ♪
♪ There's a song that will linger
Forever in our ears ♪
♪ Oh. hard times. come again no more ♪
♪ 'Tis the song. the sigh of the weary ♪
♪ Hard times. hard times
Come again no more ♪
♪ Many days have you lingered
Around my cabin door ♪
♪ Oh. hard times. come again no more ♪
[tense music playing]
[woman] It's not working!
[indistinct yelling]
[fire roaring]
We need to fall back!
No!
We have to keep fighting!
No one's losing their life
for your town. Eli!
[wind whistling]
[music fades]
- Get back!
- [man] Fall back!
- [man] Get back!
[Eli] Fall back!
[indistinct yelling]
[Eli] Everyone. fall back!
Come on!
[man] Get away from here!
[fire roaring]
[wind whistling]
[creaking]
[Charles] The wind is shifting.
[wind blowing loudly]
[Charles] It's shifting! It's shifting!
[indistinct chatter]
[coughing]
[melancholy music playing]
[indistinct chatter]
[thunder rumbling]
[both panting]
[young girl 1] It's finally over.
Oh. Mother. I knew I'd see you again.
[people coughing]
[young girl 2] Awful.
[young child] That was. like. awful.
[Mary and Laura gasp]
[Caroline] Hey.
It's all right.
[Mary sobbing]
We're safe.
Let's go home.
[horses snuffling]
[horse whinnies]
Whoa. easy.
- [Jack barks]
- Jack!
- Come here. Jack!
- [Mary giggles]
[Jack whines]
Let's see the damage.
[Laura] Jack!
[Mary and Laura laugh]
[music fades]
- [Jack barks]
- [Mary and Laura giggle]
[corn rustling]
It's not enough to salvage.
No.
Where will we go?
Back to the Big Woods?
Is that what you want?
[sighs softly]
[melancholy music playing]
I like who we are here.
We came here to be the best versions
of ourselves. and we did that.
We could do it again.
Let's keep going.
Go where?
I'm afraid we can't stay.
What do you mean?
I'm sorry.
Mary. give him the money.
[coins clinking]
You could use this
to pay off the debt at the store.
We didn't win as much as we hoped.
but we could get work somewhere.
It's got nothing to do with that.
You keep it.
You earned it.
Come here.
[panting]
You said this was forever.
[music fades]
I wanted that to be true.
When I imagine the future.
when I dream about us.
I always see the best possible outcome.
You have hope.
I do.
Sometimes it's not enough.
[birds chirping]
I'm sorry. Half Pint.
I wish I'd done everything differently.
[emotional music playing]
Hope is everything.
[Charles scoffs softly]
It's the only thing.
Don't give up on it.
Don't give up on us.
I won't.
Will people come to say goodbye this time?
We'll make sure of it.
[indistinct chatter]
Oh man. [laughs]
- No.
- [Lacey] No? Don't say it out loud.
- We're gonna pick a date.
- [Emily] Nope.
- Exactly. It stayed there.
- [laughing]
[indistinct chatter]
Where's Mr. Edwards?
I'm sure he'll be here soon.
[indistinct chatter continues]
It's too much.
It's all worth three
or four times what you owe.
We can't take it with us.
These won't last long in the store window.
Let me at least pay you for the plow.
Consider anything extra
an early wedding present
when the day comes.
[emotional music continues]
[Emily chuckles]
Oh!
[Dr. Tann] There we go.
[Charles] Go. go. go. go!
[White Sun] Keep going.
[laughing]
Yes!
When do you ride out?
Next week.
You?
Tomorrow morning.
Thank you for your kindness.
I hope we meet again.
[emotional music continues]
Don't forget me.
Never.
I'm trying to take a picture with my mind.
Me too.
Will you write to me?
I like the way you see the world.
I'll write you every week.
I'll write you back.
We'll have so many letters
we could make a book.
[Good Eagle sobs]
I'll take a piece of you
with me in my heart.
Let's go.
The first to welcome us
and the last to say goodbye.
- [Dr. Tann chuckles]
- Thank you for everything.
Look after yourself. Charles.
after that family of yours.
Be sure to steer clear of those chutes.
[chuckles]
[music fades]
He couldn't bear to say goodbye.
But he loves you both very much.
[wagon pulls away]
- Tell him thank you…
- [tender music playing]
…for finding Santa Claus on the prairie…
and for being my friend.
I will.
[birds chirping]
[Caroline sighs]
[Lacey cues horse]
Think of how much fun
the rabbits will have eating our garden.
Who's gonna live here now?
[Charles] Maybe a new family
looking to make their own memories.
[Jack barks]
[Charles] Maybe one
of the Osage staying behind.
Or maybe just the flowers and sky
and rabbits.
[music fades]
[Laura. Mary]
♪ There is a happy land. far. far away ♪
♪ Where saints in glory stand bright
Bright as day ♪
♪ O. to hear the angels sing
Glory to the Lord our King ♪
♪ Loud let his praises sing praise
Praise. praise for aye ♪
♪ Come to the happy land
Come. come away ♪
♪ Why were you doubting stand?
Why still delay? ♪
♪ O. we shall happy be
When from sin and sorrow free ♪
♪ Lord. we shall live with thee
Blest. blest for aye ♪
Jack. come! Jack!
[Jack barking]
Pa. stop the wagon. Stop the wagon.
Whoa.
Jack. come back!
Jack! Jack!
[tense music playing]
- [barking]
- [Laura] Jack!
- [horse whinnies]
- [Jack barks]
Mr. Edwards?
[tender music playing]
It's Mr. Edwards!
Whoa.
Thought I might join you.
if you don't mind.
My wife's cousin lives in Minnesota.
Town called Walnut Grove.
Husband owns a store there.
Heard the land is good
and the people are kind.
- What do you think. girls?
- [girls] Yes.
[chuckles]
Lead the way.
All right. [cues horse]
Come on.
[music swells]
[closing theme music playing]
[music ends]